---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Overview

:::warning

This project is in a heavy pre-production state.
All information on this wiki is subject to change!

Please leave any feedback at https://discord.gg/archipelago
(find us in
[`#minecraft` in the Minecraft Client 2.0 thread](https://discord.com/channels/731205301247803413/1394782863135608832/1394783006849368065)).

:::

## Summary

This is a total rewrite of the original Archipelago client for Minecraft.
The goal is to provide a core foundation of tools for writing Minecraft vanilla and modpack implementations,
focusing on long-term maintainability, modularity, flexibility and extendability.

Currently, this project is in a planning/pre-production phase, with no release date.

Priority is currently placed on one extendable implementation for 1.21.8.
Backports to older versions and loaders will be created on request later down the line.

Join us at https://discord.gg/archipelago (find us in
[`#minecraft` in the Minecraft Client 2.0 thread](https://discord.com/channels/731205301247803413/1394782863135608832/1394783006849368065)).
If you'd like to contribute, definitely reach out to us there.

Feel free to check out our [GitHub Organization](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMinecraft).

## Goals

### Extendability

The APWorld and the Minecraft Archipelago client are designed to be completely modular.
Grab the APWorld template, export your modpack's raw data, and pick which batteries to include.
The Minecraft client is versatile and built to be portable.
<br />See [Architecture Overview](/docs/architecture).

### Robust Tooling

An `.apmcbundle` file generated by the APWorld will contain all of your mod's files in a schema,
for running servers and patching instances.
<br />See [Archipelago Architecture](/docs/category/archipelago-architecture).

KubeJS support integrates Archipelago with an expressive, easy-to-use JavaScript API.
<br />See [KubeJS](/docs/architecture/client/kubejs).

**One portable, extendable core Minecraft client.**
The core client mod will be generic.
It's tailored to be simple and extendable, making it viable to maintain
many NeoForge/Forge/Fabric ports with one unified codebase, under a variety of different game versions.
Ports will be made on-demand, with KubeJS support included.<br />
See [Client Architecture](/docs/category/client-architecture).

**A featureful vanilla implementation** that maintains feature parity with the original randomizer,
while adding many new features and fixing specific gameplay problems.<br />
See [Roadmap](/docs/roadmap).

Click an article on the sidebar for more information.
